migrate-to-jboss-eap.adoc, before:

= Lab 2 - Migrate your application to JBoss EAP
:experimental:

In this step you will migrate some Weblogic-specific code in the app to use standard (Jakarta EE) interfaces.

=== 1. Jump to Code

Let's jump to code containing identified migration issues. Expand the *monolith* source project in the MTA explorer and navigate to `monolith > dukesbank-war > src > main > java > com > sun > tutorial > javaee > dukesbank > utils > StartupListener.java`. Be sure to click the arrow next to the actual class name `StartupListener.java` to expand and show the Hints:

image::mta_project_issues.png[mta, 500]

In the Explorer, MTA issues use an icon to indicate their severity level and status. The following table describes the meaning of the various icons:

image::mta-issues-table.png[mta, 700]

=== 2. View Details about the Migration Issues

Let's take a look at the details about the migration issue. Right-click on `WebLogic ApplicationLifecycleListenerEvent[rule-id:xxx]` in _Hints_ of _StartupListener.java_ file. Click on `View Details`:

image::mta-issue-detail.png[rhamt_project_issues, 900]

MTA also provides helpful links to understand the issue deeper and offer guidance for the migration when you click on `Open Report`:

image::mta-issue-open-report.png[rhamt_project_issues, 900]

The WebLogic `ApplicationLifecycleListener` abstract class is used to perform functions or schedule jobs in Oracle WebLogic, like server start and stop. In this case we have code in the `postStart` and `preStop` methods which are executed after Weblogic starts up and before it shuts down, respectively.

In Jakarta EE, there is no equivalent to intercept these events, but you can get equivalent
functionality using a _Singleton EJB_ with standard annotations, as suggested in the issue in the MTA report.

We will use the `@Startup` annotation to tell the container to initialize the singleton session bean at application start. We
will similarly use the `@PostConstruct` and `@PreDestroy` annotations to specify the methods to invoke at the start and end of
the application lifecyle achieving the same result but without using proprietary interfaces.

Using this method makes the code much more portable.

=== 3. Fix the ApplicationLifecycleListener issues

To begin we are fixing the issues under the Monolith application. Right-click on `WebLogic ApplicationLifecycleListenerEvent[rule-id:xxx]` in _Hints_ of _StartupListener.java_ file. Click on `Open Code`:

image::mta-issue-open-code.png[rhamt_project_issues, 900]

You can also navigate to the `fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs` folder in the project tree, then open the file `monolith/dukesbank-war/src/main/java/com/sun/tutorial/javaee/dukesbank/utils/StartupListener.java` by clicking on it.

Replace the file content with:

[source,java, role="copypaste"]
----
package com.sun.tutorial.javaee.dukesbank.utils;

import javax.annotation.PostConstruct;
import javax.annotation.PreDestroy;
import javax.ejb.Startup;
import javax.inject.Singleton;
import javax.inject.Inject;
import java.util.logging.Logger;

@Singleton
@Startup
public class StartupListener {

    @Inject
    Logger log;

    @PostConstruct
    public void postStart() {
        log.info("AppListener(postStart)");
    }

    @PreDestroy
    public void preStop() {
        log.info("AppListener(preStop)");
    }

}
----

[NOTE]
====
Where is the Save button? CodeReady workspaces will autosave your changes, that is why you can’t find a SAVE button - no
more losing code because you forgot to save. You can undo with kbd:[CTRL-Z] (or kbd:[CMD-Z] on a Mac) or by using the `Edit -> Undo` menu option.
====


=== 4. Test the build

Open a new Terminal window under the `quarkus-tools` container (on the right). In the terminal, issue the following command to test the build:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith clean package
----

image::codeready-workspace-build.png[rhamt_project_issues, 700]

If it builds successfully (you will see `BUILD SUCCESS`), let’s move on to the next issue! If it does not compile, verify
you made all the changes correctly and try the build again.

image::codeready-workspace-build-result.png[rhamt_project_issues, 700]

==== View the diffs

You can review the changes you've made. On the left, click on the _Version Control_ icon, which shows a list of the changed files. Double-click on `StartupListener.java` to view the differences you've made:

image::codeready-workspace-diffs.png[diffs, 700]

CodeReady keeps track (using Git) of the changes you make, and you can use version control to check in, update, and compare files as you change them.

For now, go back to the _Explorer_ tree and lets fix the remaining issues.

=== 5. Fix the logger issues

Some of our application makes use of Weblogic-specific logging methods like the `NonCatalogLogger`, which offer features related to logging of
internationalized content, and client-server logging.

The WebLogic `NonCatalogLogger` is not supported on JBoss EAP (or any other Java EE platform), and should be migrated to a
supported logging framework, such as the JDK Logger or JBoss Logging.

We will use the standard Java Logging framework, a much more portable framework. The framework also
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/logging/overview.html#a1.17[supports
internationalization^] if needed.

In the same `monolith` directory, open the `dukesbank-ejb/src/main/java/com/sun/tutorial/javaee/dukesbank/util/Debug.java` file and replace its contents with:

[source,java, role="copypaste"]
----
package com.sun.tutorial.javaee.dukesbank.util;

import java.util.logging.Logger;

/**
 * This class makes it easier to print out debug statements.
 * The Debug.print statements are printed to System.err
 * if debuggingOn = true.
 */
public final class Debug {
    public static final boolean debuggingOn = true;

    private static Logger logger = Logger.getLogger(Debug.class.getName());

    public static final void print(String msg) {
        if (debuggingOn) {
            logger.fine("Debug: " + msg);
        }
    }

    public static final void print(
        String msg,
        Object object) {
        if (debuggingOn) {
            logger.fine("Debug: " + msg);
            logger.fine("       " + object.getClass().getName());
        }
    }
}
----

That one was pretty easy.

=== 6. Test the build

Build and package the app again just as before:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith clean package
----

If builds successfully (you will see `BUILD SUCCESS`), then let’s move on to the next issue! If it does not compile, verify you
made all the changes correctly and try the build again.

[NOTE]
====
You should be aware that this type of migration is more involved than the previous steps, and in real world applications it will
rarely be as simple as changing one line at a time for a migration. Consult the
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/migration_toolkit_for_applications/[MTA documentation^] for more
detail on Red Hat’s Application Migration strategies or contact your local Red Hat representative to learn more about how Red Hat
can help you on your migration path.
====

=== 7. Remove the weblogic EJB Descriptors

The first step is to remove the unneeded `weblogic-ejb-jar.xml` file. This file is proprietary to Weblogic and not recognized or
processed by JBoss EAP. Delete the file by right-clicking on the `dukesbank-ejb/src/main/resourcees/META-INF/weblogic-ejb-jar.xml` file and choose **Delete**, and click **OK**.

image::codeready-workspace-delete-jar.png[codeready-workspace-convert, 500]

While we’re at it, let’s remove the stub weblogic implementation classes added as part of the scenario.

Right-click on the `src/main/java/weblogic` folder and select *Delete* to delete the folder:

image::codeready-workspace-delete-weblogic.png[codeready-workspace-convert, 500]

=== 8. Fix the code

It's necessary to remove the explicit reference to `WeblogicTransactionManagerLookup` in the persistence configurations. Also, set the proper _JNDI_ name for the datasource in *JBoss EAP 7*: `java:jboss/datasources/DukesBankDS`.

In the `monolith` directory, open the `dukesbank-ejb/src/main/resources/META-INF/persistence.xml` file and replace its contents with:

[source,xml, role="copypaste"]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<persistence version="2.0"
        xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/persistence"
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:schemaLocation="
        http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/persistence
        http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/persistence/persistence_2_0.xsd">
    <persistence-unit name="dukesbank-ejb"
            transaction-type="JTA">
            <jta-data-source>java:jboss/datasources/DukesBankDS</jta-data-source>
                <properties>
                        <property name="hibernate.dialect" value="org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5Dialect" />
                        <property name="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto" value="update" />
                        <property name="hibernate.show_sql" value="true" />
                </properties>
    </persistence-unit>
</persistence>
----

=== 9. Test the build

Build once again:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith clean package
----

image::codeready-workspace-build.png[rhamt_project_issues, 700]

If builds successfully (you will see `BUILD SUCCESS`). If it does not compile, verify you
made all the changes correctly and try the build again.

=== 10. Re-run the MTA report

In this step we will re-run the MTA report to verify our migration was successful.

In the MTA explorer, right-click on *mtaConfiguration* to analyze the WebLogic application once again. Click on `Run` in the popup menu:

image::mta-rerun-report.png[rhamt_rerun_analysis_report, 700]

Migration Toolkit for Applications (MTA) CLI will be executed automatically in a new terminal then it will take a few mins to complete the analysis. Click on `Open Report`:

image::mta-analysis-rerun-complete.png[MTA Add App, 700]

[NOTE]
====
If it is taking too long, feel free to skip the next section and proceed to step *12* and return back to the analysis later to confirm that you
eliminated all the issues.
====

=== 11. View the results

Click on the lastet result to go to the report web page and verify that it now reports 0 Story Points:

You have successfully migrated this app to JBoss EAP, congratulations!

image::rhamt_project_issues_story.png[rhamt_project_issues_story, 700]

Now that we’ve migrated the app, let’s deploy it and test it out and start to explore some of the features that JBoss EAP plus Red
Hat OpenShift bring to the table.

=== 12. Add an OpenShift profile

Open the `monolith/pom.xml` file.

At the `<!-- TODO: Add OpenShift profile here -->` we are going to add a the following configuration to the pom.xml

[source,xml,role="copypaste"]
----
        <profile>
          <id>openshift</id>
          <build>
              <plugins>
                  <plugin>
                      <artifactId>maven-ear-plugin</artifactId>
                      <configuration>
                            <outputDirectory>${basedir}/deployments</outputDirectory>
		                    <finalName>ROOT</finalName>
                      </configuration>
                  </plugin>
                  <plugin>
                      <artifactId>maven-war-plugin</artifactId>
                      <configuration>
                          <webResources>
                              <resource>
                                  <directory>${basedir}/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF</directory>
                                  <filtering>true</filtering>
                                  <targetPath>WEB-INF</targetPath>
                              </resource>
                          </webResources>
                      </configuration>
                  </plugin>
              </plugins>
          </build>
        </profile>
----

=== 13. Create the OpenShift project

First, open a new brower with the {{ CONSOLE_URL }}[OpenShift web console^]:

image::openshift_login.png[openshift_login, 700]

Login using your credentials:

* Username: `{{ USER_ID }}`
* Password: `{{ OPENSHIFT_USER_PASSWORD }}`

You will see a list of projects to which you have access:

image::openshift_landing.png[openshift_landing, 700]

[NOTE]
====
The project displayed in the landing page depends on which labs you will run today.
====

Click **Create Project**, fill in the fields, and click *Create*:

* Name: `{{USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev`
* Display Name: `{{ USER_ID }} DukesBank Monolith - Dev`
* Description: _leave this field empty_

[NOTE]
====
YOU *MUST* USE `{{ USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev` AS THE PROJECT NAME, as this name is referenced later on and you will experience
failures if you do not name it `{{ USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev`!
====

image::create_dialog.png[create_dialog, 700]

This will take you to the project overview. There’s nothing there yet, but that’s about to change.

image::project_overview.png[create_new, 700]

==== Switch to Developer Perspective

OpenShift 4 provides both an _Administrator_ and _Developer_ view in its console. Switch to the _Developer Perspective_ using the dropdown on the left:

image::dev_perspective.png[create_new, 700]

This provides a developer-centric view of applications deployed to the project. Since we have nothing deployed yet, you are presented with a set of ways to deploy applications.

=== 14. Deploy the monolith

We've pre-installed an application _template_ for use. Click the *From Catalog* item:

image::from_catalog.png[create_new, 700]

In the search box, type in `dukesbank` and choose _DukesBank Monolith using binary build_ and then click *Instantiate Template*. If you don't see the _dukesbank_ template, make sure to uncheck *Operator Backed* in _Type_.

image::from_catalog_bin.png[create_new, 700]

Fill in the following fields:

* *Namespace*: `{{USER_ID}}-dukesbank-dev` (this should already be selected)
* *User ID*: `{{ USER_ID }}`

image::from_catalog_bin_details.png[create_new, 700]

Leave other values the same and click **Create**.

Go to the _Topology_ view to see the elements that were deployed.

The *Topology* view in the _Developer_ perspective of the web console provides a visual representation of all the applications
within a project, their build status, and the components and services associated with them.

image::dukesbank_topology.png[create_new, 700]

You can see the _mysql_ database running (with a dark blue circle), and the dukesbank monolith, which has not yet been deployed or started.

==== Deploy monolith using CLI

Although your Eclipse Che workspace is running on the Kubernetes cluster, it’s running with a default restricted _Service Account_
that prevents you from creating most resource types. If you’ve completed other modules, you’re probably already logged in, but
let’s login again: click on *Login to OpenShift*, and enter your given credentials:

* Username: `{{ USER_ID }}`
* Password: `{{ OPENSHIFT_USER_PASSWORD }}`

image::cmd-login.png[login,700]

You should see something like this (the project names may be different):

[source,none]
----
Login successful.

You have access to the following projects and can switch between them with 'oc project <projectname>':

  * {{ USER_ID }}-bookinfo
    {{ USER_ID }}-account
    {{ USER_ID }}-cloudnative-pipeline
    {{ USER_ID }}-cloudnativeapps
    {{ USER_ID }}-transaction
    {{ USER_ID }}-istio-system

Using project "{{ USER_ID }}-bookinfo".
Welcome! See 'oc help' to get started.
----

[NOTE]
====
After you log in using *Login to OpenShift*, the terminal is no longer usable as a regular terminal. You can close the terminal window. You will still be logged in when you open more terminals later!
====

Switch to the developer project you created earlier via CodeReady Workspaces Terminal window:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
oc project {{ USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev
----

Next, label the components so that they get proper icons by running this command in the CodeReady Terminal:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
oc label dc/dukesbank-mysql app.openshift.io/runtime=mysql-database --overwrite && \
oc label dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/runtime=jboss --overwrite && \
oc label dc/dukesbank-mysql app.kubernetes.io/part-of=dukesbank --overwrite && \
oc label dc/dukesbank app.kubernetes.io/part-of=dukesbank --overwrite && \
oc annotate dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/connects-to=dukesbank-mysql --overwrite && \
oc annotate dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/vcs-uri=https://github.com/rmarins/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs.git --overwrite && \
oc annotate dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/vcs-ref=ocp-4.5 --overwrite
----

image::dukesbank-labels.png[create_new, 600]

You have not yet deployed the container image built in previous steps, but you’ll do that next.

=== 16. Deploy application using Binary build

In this development project we have selected to use a process called _binary builds_, which means that instead of pointing to a
public Git Repository and have the S2I (Source-to-Image) build process download, build, and then create a container image for us
we are going to build locally and just upload the artifact (e.g. the `.war` file). The binary deployment will speed up the build
process significantly.

First, build the project once more using the `openshift` Maven profile, which will create a suitable binary for use with
OpenShift (this is not a container image yet, but just the `.war` file). We will do this with the `oc` command line.

Build the project via CodeReady Workspaces Terminal window:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn clean package -Popenshift -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith
----

Wait for the build to finish and the `BUILD SUCCESS` message!

And finally, start the build process that will take the `.war` file and combine it with JBoss EAP and produce a Linux container
image which will be automatically deployed into the project, thanks to the _DeploymentConfig_ object created from the template:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
oc start-build dukesbank --from-dir $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith/dukesbank-ear/deployments
----

Back in the topology view, you should see the monolith being built:

image::monolith_build.png[building]

Click on the building icon to see the build log:

image::monolith_log.png[building]

Return to the Topology view, and click on the main icon and view the _Overview_:

image::monolith_starting.png[building, 700]

Wait for the deployment to complete and the dark blue circle:

image::monolith_wait.png[building, 700]

Test the application by clicking on the Route link:

image::route_link.png[route_link, 400]

==== Congratulations!

Now you are using the same application that we built locally on OpenShift. That wasn’t too hard right?

image::dukesbank_web.png[dukesbank_web, 700]

==== Summary

Now that you have migrated an existing Java EE app to the cloud with JBoss and OpenShift, you are ready to start modernizing the
application by breaking the monolith into smaller microservices in incremental steps, and employing modern techniques to ensure
the application runs well in a distributed and containerized environment.

Commit message:

configure route to /bank path

migrate-to-jboss-eap.adoc, after:

= Lab 2 - Migrate your application to JBoss EAP
:experimental:

In this step you will migrate some Weblogic-specific code in the app to use standard (Jakarta EE) interfaces.

=== 1. Jump to Code

Let's jump to code containing identified migration issues. Expand the *monolith* source project in the MTA explorer and navigate to `monolith > dukesbank-war > src > main > java > com > sun > tutorial > javaee > dukesbank > utils > StartupListener.java`. Be sure to click the arrow next to the actual class name `StartupListener.java` to expand and show the Hints:

image::mta_project_issues.png[mta, 500]

In the Explorer, MTA issues use an icon to indicate their severity level and status. The following table describes the meaning of the various icons:

image::mta-issues-table.png[mta, 700]

=== 2. View Details about the Migration Issues

Let's take a look at the details about the migration issue. Right-click on `WebLogic ApplicationLifecycleListenerEvent[rule-id:xxx]` in _Hints_ of _StartupListener.java_ file. Click on `View Details`:

image::mta-issue-detail.png[rhamt_project_issues, 900]

MTA also provides helpful links to understand the issue deeper and offer guidance for the migration when you click on `Open Report`:

image::mta-issue-open-report.png[rhamt_project_issues, 900]

The WebLogic `ApplicationLifecycleListener` abstract class is used to perform functions or schedule jobs in Oracle WebLogic, like server start and stop. In this case we have code in the `postStart` and `preStop` methods which are executed after Weblogic starts up and before it shuts down, respectively.

In Jakarta EE, there is no equivalent to intercept these events, but you can get equivalent
functionality using a _Singleton EJB_ with standard annotations, as suggested in the issue in the MTA report.

We will use the `@Startup` annotation to tell the container to initialize the singleton session bean at application start. We
will similarly use the `@PostConstruct` and `@PreDestroy` annotations to specify the methods to invoke at the start and end of
the application lifecyle achieving the same result but without using proprietary interfaces.

Using this method makes the code much more portable.

=== 3. Fix the ApplicationLifecycleListener issues

To begin we are fixing the issues under the Monolith application. Right-click on `WebLogic ApplicationLifecycleListenerEvent[rule-id:xxx]` in _Hints_ of _StartupListener.java_ file. Click on `Open Code`:

image::mta-issue-open-code.png[rhamt_project_issues, 900]

You can also navigate to the `fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs` folder in the project tree, then open the file `monolith/dukesbank-war/src/main/java/com/sun/tutorial/javaee/dukesbank/utils/StartupListener.java` by clicking on it.

Replace the file content with:

[source,java, role="copypaste"]
----
package com.sun.tutorial.javaee.dukesbank.utils;

import javax.annotation.PostConstruct;
import javax.annotation.PreDestroy;
import javax.ejb.Startup;
import javax.inject.Singleton;
import javax.inject.Inject;
import java.util.logging.Logger;

@Singleton
@Startup
public class StartupListener {

    @Inject
    Logger log;

    @PostConstruct
    public void postStart() {
        log.info("AppListener(postStart)");
    }

    @PreDestroy
    public void preStop() {
        log.info("AppListener(preStop)");
    }

}
----

[NOTE]
====
Where is the Save button? CodeReady workspaces will autosave your changes, that is why you can’t find a SAVE button - no
more losing code because you forgot to save. You can undo with kbd:[CTRL-Z] (or kbd:[CMD-Z] on a Mac) or by using the `Edit -> Undo` menu option.
====


=== 4. Test the build

Open a new Terminal window under the `quarkus-tools` container (on the right). In the terminal, issue the following command to test the build:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith clean package
----

image::codeready-workspace-build.png[rhamt_project_issues, 700]

If it builds successfully (you will see `BUILD SUCCESS`), let’s move on to the next issue! If it does not compile, verify
you made all the changes correctly and try the build again.

image::codeready-workspace-build-result.png[rhamt_project_issues, 700]

==== View the diffs

You can review the changes you've made. On the left, click on the _Version Control_ icon, which shows a list of the changed files. Double-click on `StartupListener.java` to view the differences you've made:

image::codeready-workspace-diffs.png[diffs, 700]

CodeReady keeps track (using Git) of the changes you make, and you can use version control to check in, update, and compare files as you change them.

For now, go back to the _Explorer_ tree and lets fix the remaining issues.

=== 5. Fix the logger issues

Some of our application makes use of Weblogic-specific logging methods like the `NonCatalogLogger`, which offer features related to logging of
internationalized content, and client-server logging.

The WebLogic `NonCatalogLogger` is not supported on JBoss EAP (or any other Java EE platform), and should be migrated to a
supported logging framework, such as the JDK Logger or JBoss Logging.

We will use the standard Java Logging framework, a much more portable framework. The framework also
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/logging/overview.html#a1.17[supports
internationalization^] if needed.

In the same `monolith` directory, open the `dukesbank-ejb/src/main/java/com/sun/tutorial/javaee/dukesbank/util/Debug.java` file and replace its contents with:

[source,java, role="copypaste"]
----
package com.sun.tutorial.javaee.dukesbank.util;

import java.util.logging.Logger;

/**
 * This class makes it easier to print out debug statements.
 * The Debug.print statements are printed to System.err
 * if debuggingOn = true.
 */
public final class Debug {
    public static final boolean debuggingOn = true;

    private static Logger logger = Logger.getLogger(Debug.class.getName());

    public static final void print(String msg) {
        if (debuggingOn) {
            logger.fine("Debug: " + msg);
        }
    }

    public static final void print(
        String msg,
        Object object) {
        if (debuggingOn) {
            logger.fine("Debug: " + msg);
            logger.fine("       " + object.getClass().getName());
        }
    }
}
----

That one was pretty easy.

=== 6. Test the build

Build and package the app again just as before:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith clean package
----

If builds successfully (you will see `BUILD SUCCESS`), then let’s move on to the next issue! If it does not compile, verify you
made all the changes correctly and try the build again.

[NOTE]
====
You should be aware that this type of migration is more involved than the previous steps, and in real world applications it will
rarely be as simple as changing one line at a time for a migration. Consult the
https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/migration_toolkit_for_applications/[MTA documentation^] for more
detail on Red Hat’s Application Migration strategies or contact your local Red Hat representative to learn more about how Red Hat
can help you on your migration path.
====

=== 7. Remove the weblogic EJB Descriptors

The first step is to remove the unneeded `weblogic-ejb-jar.xml` file. This file is proprietary to Weblogic and not recognized or
processed by JBoss EAP. Delete the file by right-clicking on the `dukesbank-ejb/src/main/resourcees/META-INF/weblogic-ejb-jar.xml` file and choose **Delete**, and click **OK**.

image::codeready-workspace-delete-jar.png[codeready-workspace-convert, 500]

While we’re at it, let’s remove the stub weblogic implementation classes added as part of the scenario.

Right-click on the `src/main/java/weblogic` folder and select *Delete* to delete the folder:

image::codeready-workspace-delete-weblogic.png[codeready-workspace-convert, 500]

=== 8. Fix the code

It's necessary to remove the explicit reference to `WeblogicTransactionManagerLookup` in the persistence configurations. Also, set the proper _JNDI_ name for the datasource in *JBoss EAP 7*: `java:jboss/datasources/DukesBankDS`.

In the `monolith` directory, open the `dukesbank-ejb/src/main/resources/META-INF/persistence.xml` file and replace its contents with:

[source,xml, role="copypaste"]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<persistence version="2.0"
        xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/persistence"
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:schemaLocation="
        http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/persistence
        http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/persistence/persistence_2_0.xsd">
    <persistence-unit name="dukesbank-ejb"
            transaction-type="JTA">
            <jta-data-source>java:jboss/datasources/DukesBankDS</jta-data-source>
                <properties>
                        <property name="hibernate.dialect" value="org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5Dialect" />
                        <property name="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto" value="update" />
                        <property name="hibernate.show_sql" value="true" />
                </properties>
    </persistence-unit>
</persistence>
----

=== 9. Test the build

Build once again:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith clean package
----

image::codeready-workspace-build.png[rhamt_project_issues, 700]

If builds successfully (you will see `BUILD SUCCESS`). If it does not compile, verify you
made all the changes correctly and try the build again.

=== 10. Re-run the MTA report

In this step we will re-run the MTA report to verify our migration was successful.

In the MTA explorer, right-click on *mtaConfiguration* to analyze the WebLogic application once again. Click on `Run` in the popup menu:

image::mta-rerun-report.png[rhamt_rerun_analysis_report, 700]

Migration Toolkit for Applications (MTA) CLI will be executed automatically in a new terminal then it will take a few mins to complete the analysis. Click on `Open Report`:

image::mta-analysis-rerun-complete.png[MTA Add App, 700]

[NOTE]
====
If it is taking too long, feel free to skip the next section and proceed to step *12* and return back to the analysis later to confirm that you
eliminated all the issues.
====

=== 11. View the results

Click on the lastet result to go to the report web page and verify that it now reports 0 Story Points:

You have successfully migrated this app to JBoss EAP, congratulations!

image::rhamt_project_issues_story.png[rhamt_project_issues_story, 700]

Now that we’ve migrated the app, let’s deploy it and test it out and start to explore some of the features that JBoss EAP plus Red
Hat OpenShift bring to the table.

=== 12. Add an OpenShift profile

Open the `monolith/pom.xml` file.

At the `<!-- TODO: Add OpenShift profile here -->` we are going to add a the following configuration to the pom.xml

[source,xml,role="copypaste"]
----
        <profile>
          <id>openshift</id>
          <build>
              <plugins>
                  <plugin>
                      <artifactId>maven-ear-plugin</artifactId>
                      <configuration>
                            <outputDirectory>${basedir}/deployments</outputDirectory>
		                    <finalName>ROOT</finalName>
                      </configuration>
                  </plugin>
                  <plugin>
                      <artifactId>maven-war-plugin</artifactId>
                      <configuration>
                          <webResources>
                              <resource>
                                  <directory>${basedir}/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF</directory>
                                  <filtering>true</filtering>
                                  <targetPath>WEB-INF</targetPath>
                              </resource>
                          </webResources>
                      </configuration>
                  </plugin>
              </plugins>
          </build>
        </profile>
----

=== 13. Create the OpenShift project

First, open a new brower with the {{ CONSOLE_URL }}[OpenShift web console^]:

image::openshift_login.png[openshift_login, 700]

Login using your credentials:

* Username: `{{ USER_ID }}`
* Password: `{{ OPENSHIFT_USER_PASSWORD }}`

You will see a list of projects to which you have access:

image::openshift_landing.png[openshift_landing, 700]

[NOTE]
====
The project displayed in the landing page depends on which labs you will run today.
====

Click **Create Project**, fill in the fields, and click *Create*:

* Name: `{{USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev`
* Display Name: `{{ USER_ID }} DukesBank Monolith - Dev`
* Description: _leave this field empty_

[NOTE]
====
YOU *MUST* USE `{{ USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev` AS THE PROJECT NAME, as this name is referenced later on and you will experience
failures if you do not name it `{{ USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev`!
====

image::create_dialog.png[create_dialog, 700]

This will take you to the project overview. There’s nothing there yet, but that’s about to change.

image::project_overview.png[create_new, 700]

==== Switch to Developer Perspective

OpenShift 4 provides both an _Administrator_ and _Developer_ view in its console. Switch to the _Developer Perspective_ using the dropdown on the left:

image::dev_perspective.png[create_new, 700]

This provides a developer-centric view of applications deployed to the project. Since we have nothing deployed yet, you are presented with a set of ways to deploy applications.

=== 14. Deploy the monolith

We've pre-installed an application _template_ for use. Click the *From Catalog* item:

image::from_catalog.png[create_new, 700]

In the search box, type in `dukesbank` and choose _DukesBank Monolith using binary build_ and then click *Instantiate Template*. If you don't see the _dukesbank_ template, make sure to uncheck *Operator Backed* in _Type_.

image::from_catalog_bin.png[create_new, 700]

Fill in the following fields:

* *Namespace*: `{{USER_ID}}-dukesbank-dev` (this should already be selected)
* *User ID*: `{{ USER_ID }}`

image::from_catalog_bin_details.png[create_new, 700]

Leave other values the same and click **Create**.

Go to the _Topology_ view to see the elements that were deployed.

The *Topology* view in the _Developer_ perspective of the web console provides a visual representation of all the applications
within a project, their build status, and the components and services associated with them.

image::dukesbank_topology.png[create_new, 700]

You can see the _mysql_ database running (with a dark blue circle), and the dukesbank monolith, which has not yet been deployed or started.

==== Deploy monolith using CLI

Although your Eclipse Che workspace is running on the Kubernetes cluster, it’s running with a default restricted _Service Account_
that prevents you from creating most resource types. If you’ve completed other modules, you’re probably already logged in, but
let’s login again: click on *Login to OpenShift*, and enter your given credentials:

* Username: `{{ USER_ID }}`
* Password: `{{ OPENSHIFT_USER_PASSWORD }}`

image::cmd-login.png[login,700]

You should see something like this (the project names may be different):

[source,none]
----
Login successful.

You have access to the following projects and can switch between them with 'oc project <projectname>':

  * {{ USER_ID }}-bookinfo
    {{ USER_ID }}-account
    {{ USER_ID }}-cloudnative-pipeline
    {{ USER_ID }}-cloudnativeapps
    {{ USER_ID }}-transaction
    {{ USER_ID }}-istio-system

Using project "{{ USER_ID }}-bookinfo".
Welcome! See 'oc help' to get started.
----

[NOTE]
====
After you log in using *Login to OpenShift*, the terminal is no longer usable as a regular terminal. You can close the terminal window. You will still be logged in when you open more terminals later!
====

Switch to the developer project you created earlier via CodeReady Workspaces Terminal window:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
oc project {{ USER_ID }}-dukesbank-dev
----

Next, label the components so that they get proper icons by running this command in the CodeReady Terminal:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
oc label dc/dukesbank-mysql app.openshift.io/runtime=mysql-database --overwrite && \
oc label dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/runtime=jboss --overwrite && \
oc label dc/dukesbank-mysql app.kubernetes.io/part-of=dukesbank --overwrite && \
oc label dc/dukesbank app.kubernetes.io/part-of=dukesbank --overwrite && \
oc annotate dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/connects-to=dukesbank-mysql --overwrite && \
oc annotate dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/vcs-uri=https://github.com/rmarins/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs.git --overwrite && \
oc annotate dc/dukesbank app.openshift.io/vcs-ref=ocp-4.5 --overwrite
----

image::dukesbank-labels.png[create_new, 600]

You have not yet deployed the container image built in previous steps, but you’ll do that next.

=== 16. Deploy application using Binary build

In this development project we have selected to use a process called _binary builds_, which means that instead of pointing to a
public Git Repository and have the S2I (Source-to-Image) build process download, build, and then create a container image for us
we are going to build locally and just upload the artifact (e.g. the `.war` file). The binary deployment will speed up the build
process significantly.

First, build the project once more using the `openshift` Maven profile, which will create a suitable binary for use with
OpenShift (this is not a container image yet, but just the `.war` file). We will do this with the `oc` command line.

Build the project via CodeReady Workspaces Terminal window:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
mvn clean package -Popenshift -f $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith
----

Wait for the build to finish and the `BUILD SUCCESS` message!

And finally, start the build process that will take the `.war` file and combine it with JBoss EAP and produce a Linux container
image which will be automatically deployed into the project, thanks to the _DeploymentConfig_ object created from the template:

[source,sh,role="copypaste"]
----
oc start-build dukesbank --from-dir $CHE_PROJECTS_ROOT/fsi-workshop-v2m1-labs/monolith/dukesbank-ear/deployments
----

Back in the topology view, you should see the monolith being built:

image::monolith_build.png[building]

Click on the building icon to see the build log:

image::monolith_log.png[building]

Return to the Topology view, and click on the main icon and view the _Overview_:

image::monolith_starting.png[building, 700]

Wait for the deployment to complete and the dark blue circle:

image::monolith_wait.png[building, 700]

Next, configure the route to redirect to the full path of the application endpoint:

----
oc patch route/dukesbank -p '{"spec":{"path":"/bank"}}'
----

Test the application by clicking on the Route link:

image::route_link.png[route_link, 400]

==== Congratulations!

Now you are using the same application that we built locally on OpenShift. That wasn’t too hard right?

image::dukesbank_web.png[dukesbank_web, 700]

==== Summary

Now that you have migrated an existing Java EE app to the cloud with JBoss and OpenShift, you are ready to start modernizing the
application by breaking the monolith into smaller microservices in incremental steps, and employing modern techniques to ensure
the application runs well in a distributed and containerized environment.
